= Description

Yahoo! Placemaker is a freely available geoparsing Web service. It helps developers make their applications location-aware by 
identifying places in unstructured and atomic content - feeds, web pages, news, status updates - and returning geographic metadata 
for geographic indexing and markup.

This library is a Ruby interface for accessing the {Yahoo PlaceMaker API}[http://developer.yahoo.com/geo/placemaker/].

= Installation

Assuming that you've set up your ruby environment to pull gems from GitHub 
(see {the GitHub instructions if you haven't yet done this}[http://gems.github.com]), 
install placemaker with the following command:

  sudo gem install jsl-placemaker

= Usage

The following is an example of using the Placemaker gem to read places in a standard feed.  You'll have to get a Yahoo App ID first if you haven't 
already done so.

  require 'placemaker'
  p = Placemaker::Client.new(:appid => YOUR_APP_ID, :document_url => 'http://feeds.feedburner.com/wooster', :document_type => 'text/xml')
  p.fetch!

This will make a call to the Placemaker service and populate the Placemaker::Client object with data about the places in the content that you
sent to Yahoo.  The information that you'll be interested in may be divided into "documents" and "meta-data."

You can also use placemaker with a document that you upload.  Use +document_content+ in the configuration options instead of :document_url, and 
make sure to set the appropriate value for +document_type+.  Acceptable mime types are text/plain, text/html, text/xml, text/rss, application/xml, 
and application/rss+xml.  The following is an example of using jsl-placemaker to encode content that you upload:

  p = Placemaker::Client.new(:appid => YOUR_APP_ID, :document_content => 'railsconf was in las vegas this year', :document_type => 'text/plain')
  p.fetch!

== Documents

Once you've run the +fetch!+ method on the Placemaker::Client, you may invoke the method +documents+ which will return a set of Placemaker::Document
objects corresponding to each of the entries in the feed given to the placemaker service.  For example, if you gave a +document_url+ pointing
to a feed containing 15 entries, there will be 15 documents in the resulting client object.

The following are methods that you may invoke on each of the Placemaker::Document objects to find out more about the place information that
Yahoo was able to glean from the input document:

* place_details - Returns a Placemaker::Location object that is a container for one named place mentioned in the document
* administrative_scope - Returns a Placemaker::Location object that is a container for the smallest administrative place that best describes the document 
* geographic_scope - Returns a Placemaker::Location object that is a container for the smallest place that best describes the document 
* extents - Returns a Placemaker::Extents object that is a container for the the map extents covering the places mentioned in the document

Below is a summary of the methods that these objects respond to.  You may wish to browse the Placemaker rdoc files for these classes to see 
for more details.
  
=== Placemaker::Location

Placemaker::Location objects contain a woe_id, name, location_type and centroid.

* woe_id - permanent identifier for the place
* name - fully qualified name for the place
* location_type - type name for the place
* centroid - centroid for the place, responds to +lat+ and +lng+

=== Placemaker::Extents

Placemaker::Extents are bounding boxes for an area of interest.  They respond to methods for +center+, +south_west+ and +north_east+.  In
all of these cases, they return a Placemaker::Coordinates object responding to +lat+ and +lng+.

== Meta-data

The request to the Yahoo place coding service returns information about the request.  You may invoke the methods +processing_time+, 
+version+, and +document_length+ to find out more about the request.

= Author

Justin S. Leitgeb, justin@phq.org